docs/python/_includes/type.adoc, before:


Setting the `type` field for a Parameter will let Beer Garden do a couple of things.

First, it lets Beer Garden perform type validation on that parameter. If the value does not match the type (and can't be converted sensibly) then the Request will be rejected.

Second, it allows the UI to use the best form element for that type of data. For example, you _could_ use a string to represent a date, but setting `type` to 'date' means the UI will use a nice datepicker form element.

Finally, several validation constraints can only be applied to specific types. The <<plugin-param-minimum,minimum>> and <<plugin-param-maximum,maximum>> constraints are good examples of this - they don't make sense for booleans, but they definitely do for integers!

[source,python]
.Type argument example
----
@parameter(key="number", type="Integer")
def multiply_by_zero(self, number):
    return number * 0
----

This table outlines the valid `type` options.
[options="header"]
|===
|Type       |Valid Constraints        |Notes
|String     |minimum, maximum, regex  |Minimum and Maximum refer to length
|Integer    |minimum, maximum         |
|Float      |minimum, maximum         |
|Boolean    |                         |
|Date       |                         |Form control will not have 'time' option
|DateTime   |                         |
|Dictionary |                         |JSON Object
|Any        |                         |Valid JSON (Object, Array, String), number, literal `null`, `true`, `false`
|===

CAUTION: The default `type` is `Any`. This gives the most flexibility, but it's a good idea to always specify a `type` to take advantage of the benefits described above.

Commit message:

Adding file trigger and file parameter information

docs/python/_includes/type.adoc, after:


Setting the `type` field for a Parameter will let Beer Garden do a couple of things.

First, it lets Beer Garden perform type validation on that parameter. If the value does not match the type (and can't be converted sensibly) then the Request will be rejected.

Second, it allows the UI to use the best form element for that type of data. For example, you _could_ use a string to represent a date, but setting `type` to 'date' means the UI will use a nice datepicker form element.

Finally, several validation constraints can only be applied to specific types. The <<plugin-param-minimum,minimum>> and <<plugin-param-maximum,maximum>> constraints are good examples of this - they don't make sense for booleans, but they definitely do for integers!

[source,python]
.Type argument example
----
@parameter(key="number", type="Integer")
def multiply_by_zero(self, number):
    return number * 0
----

This table outlines the valid `type` options.
[options="header"]
|===
|Type       |Valid Constraints        |Notes
|String     |minimum, maximum, regex  |Minimum and Maximum refer to length
|Integer    |minimum, maximum         |
|Float      |minimum, maximum         |
|Boolean    |                         |
|Date       |                         |Form control will not have 'time' option
|DateTime   |                         |
|Dictionary |                         |JSON Object
|Base64     |                         |Allows the user to upload a file as a parameter. The file MUST be ASCII compliant.
|Any        |                         |Valid JSON (Object, Array, String), number, literal `null`, `true`, `false`
|===

CAUTION: The default `type` is `Any`. This gives the most flexibility, but it's a good idea to always specify a `type` to take advantage of the benefits described above.
